---
layout: post
title: Sitecity
description: "The creation of Sitecity!"
modified: 2013-05-31
category: articles
tags: [Web app]
---
## Sitecity

Sitecity is the very first web site that I have created.  
Back in 2007 I was a little kid exploring the Internet in search of somenthing interesting (between an MSN chat and the first Photos on Facebook) the problem that I had every time I surf the web it's that when I find an usefull page I don't know where to save it!  
Back in the days there **isn't any way to synch your Bookmarks** over the *cloud* and use it on another computer.  
A couple of month later Sitecity was born!

###**ALLEGARE SCREENSHOT**

After the creation the site goes in the black hole of the Internet, the spiders forgot where my domain were (the old sitecity.altervista.org) and I were the only user of the service I had created.
###*5 October 2012*
It's the beginning of my College career I was in Milan in a new home shared with 3 roommates, I nearly forgot Sitecity in favour of the new and shining *cloud* services when I receive the following email:

###**TRADURRE**

>Ciao Alessandro,
<br>mentre effettuavo delle ricerche su internet sono capitato sul tuo "Sitecity".
<br>Trovo che sia un'idea molto interessante e che sarebbe ancora più utile se fosse implementata direttamente ad un browser(come chrome),per salvare preferiti e caricarli su qualsiasi computer ci si trovi,come fosse quello di casa.
Insomma una sorta di dropbox dei preferiti che funziona accedendo al proprio account.
<br>Pensi che sia possibile creare un'estensione per Chrome in grado di fare ciò?
Buona giornata

**Monzani Fabio**

I was surprised that someone discover my website and I liked the idea! Back then I was full of free time so I accept the challenge and try to see how Chrome Extension works.
This is the beginning of a friendship that still goes on with my **Designer**.

###Chrome extension

The main problem here it's how to communicate from client to my sitecity server. Another problem it's that the client had only javascript and html capabilities. 
<br>I didn't know how to create a proper API so I created my own version:
a super simple php page that receive get parameters (like the **supersecure plain HTTP username and password** of the user) and respond with JSON result of the corresponding MYSQL query. 
<br>Once the server API where complete the Chrome extension isn't so difficult to implement. The first version where graphically poor and here Fabio came in help

###**Screenshot della prima versione**